# CS340-ClientServerDev
CS-340 Client / Server Development

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
Maintainable and readable code uses clear variable names, follows consistent formatting, and includes comments where needed. The CRUD module greatly contibuted to the to modularity of my projects by separating the functions used to connect to and query the database. This kept the code for my dashboard clean, and enabled me to reuse the CRUD module in other assignments.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
I approached my assignments by first understanding the requirements of the project. Grazioso Salvare requested a dashboard to enable them to search for shelter animals that best fit the role of potential rescue animals. From there, I break down the component pieces of the application that is needed so that I understand the interaction between client facing systems, middle-ware, and the database. Previous projects I worked on relied on temporary system memory and used basic command line interfaces for interaction. This project greatly differs from previous projects becase we created a customer facing user interface that interacts with a database. In the future, I would conduct client interviews to understand specific needs, for example, asking the customer to walk me through their current process to select a shelter animal. I could also write a business/product requirements document and spend time upfront creating diagrams to understand the structure of the application before beginning to code.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists solve problems using technology. Our work helps automate tasks, make data useful, and promotes making smarter decisions. In this project, the dashboard helps Grazioso Salvare quickly find animals for specific rescue roles, improving efficiency and animal placement. This type of solution directly supports their mission and saves them valuable time so they can devote more time to their animals and less time searching.
